Since the advent of next generation sequencing technologies and the subsequent more than exponential decrease in sequencing costs, utilizing genetic markers to detect biological occurrences has become increasingly available to researchers worldwide. Compared to traditional ecological research, where it is required to collect specimens and identify them with extensive taxonomic expertise, sampling for genetic information is accessible, cost-effective, and doesn’t require as much specialized knowledge. Therefore it is highly likely that the utilization of genetic information will continue to grow in volume in the following years especially when it comes to ecological research and environmental management practices. 

However, at the moment there is no centralized database that could aggregate this information, connect it to metadata, and allow the exploration of results across projects and geographical regions. The Ocean Biodiversity Information System (OBIS) is the most comprehensive database of ocean biodiversity with about 59 million traditional occurrence records to date. By including genetic data to the OBIS, it could act as a central hub allowing open access to genetic datasets collected by the marine scientific community. This would enable comparative analyses of not only species occurrences, but also their evolutionary relationship to each other in high resolution. 

This wiki outlines how OBIS users can add genetic information to the database, as well as possible future developments.
